You have always lived in your father's palace, another jewel in King Minos' shining court. As a child, you loved to wander your father's island, Crete, watching the farmers and shepherds at their work. You have many siblings, bright with your father's kingly might, and your mother Pasiphae's immortal blood. You saw your mother pregnant many times during your childhood, so you could not understand the dark mood that suffused the court and your family when her stomach grew round again, the summer after Poseiden blessed Crete with a beautiful white bull. 

When your half-brother was born, you were shocked to see the horror on everyone's faces. You were charmed by his dark brown cow-eyes, by his soft brown fur, by the tiny horns peaking out beside his ears. Minotaur, they called him. Not a name, but a classification. Beast, they also called him, as he grew faster than any other child you had ever seen. Monster, they started using after he bit the serving-boy. 

Though he'd never been able to speak a word, he communicated his hunger easily enough. His anger, and his strength scared you, and you knew it was not always goats or pigs he tried to eat. Even so, it seemed unspeakably cruel to leave him alone in the structure Daedelus built beneath the palace, a massive, shifting maze of halls and chambers, impossible to navigate without aid.

As you grew older, you came to understand the people's fear, as petty criminals, then slow servents, then even members of the court were sentenced to death in the labyrinth. 